Welcome to Lakers.
In this video you will know how to turn layers on and off.
Turn on the lay a management tool.
Understand layers are useful for working on separate parts of a scene or even model.
Realize if a layer is off the final render will not contain anything that was on that layer.
So let's go have some fun with layers over in blender.
Okay so now we're over in blender.
Take a look at the 3D Ed had a tall bar so down here we have 20 squares.
How cool is that.
That will actually turn on and off certain layers.
And if he use the number keys across the top of the keyboard providing you don't have no pad emulation
turned on.
You'll also notice if we if He glanced down at the bottom of the screen here when you press one that
is on there one two three four five etc. etc. and it goes all the way to zero.
Now if we want to play something on a particular player we simply select that layer and let's just add.
I don't know a Taurus so that we've got a doughnut floating in the sky on Layer 3.
You can also see it has a little orange blob on it when it's got a mesh object on it.
So if I add I don't know a plane here and just scale that up.
And we've got two separate layers now.
Layer 1 and 3.
Now that one makes sense so if we so went over to lay a three and selected object we can move it to
another layer so you can move any object to another layer simply by going to object.
And at the top of this drop down or drop up in this case we have moved the layer and we can see the
short cut keys.
And that is it when you're an object mode.
So when we click on that we get the same thing that we can see down the bottom here so when we press
em moved to layer and I'm going to move that to Layer 2.
There we go.
If we click on there too we shall see our doughnuts again.
Brilliant.
Now if you want more than one player turned on at once you simply hold down Shift as you click on those
layers.
You can also just drag across the layers and it will also enable all disable those particular layers.
Now just to demonstrate.
If I select Layer 3 and go and render the image it renders absolutely nothing.
If I hop back to the 3D view and turn on our Taurus and render that we end up with the Taurus in the
scene.
But no ground plane.
But if I have both turned on.
And go to render render image.
It will render both of them so is very important that what you want to appear in your final render or
animation the layers are actually turned on.
Now that has a great benefit of course that things that were working on or other other bits and bobs
that are used to create our scene can be shelved to a different layer.
That's not going to be visible all of the time with the main scene.
So one final thing I would be really nice to name these layers and we can do that with the layer management
tool which is not on by default so apology's we're going to go back.
I forgot about this add on.
We need to go back to file and go to the user preferences and turn on one called Layer management is
actually quite high up the list class under the 3D view.
Layer management.
If I put a tick in that box it's an I'm going to save my user settings.
It's gonna be in the tool shelf.
It used to exist over in the properties panel but it doesn't any more it lives in the talk shop.
I'm going to bring this tool shelf out so it takes up a third of my screen and further down.
We've got the layers tab and we have to drop down layer management.
And labour groups and obviously labour groups is how you group players together.
Okay so on here we've got layer's 0 0 1 out we can call that one the for the moment I'm going to call
it plain and I'm going to call this one.
Doughnuts.
Why not.
So we've got plain and doughnuts.
Now we can lock the layers over on the left here we've got a couple of options.
This padlock you'd think would lock the.
But it doesn't what it does is it prevents you selecting the objects on that layer so it locks the objects
on that layer.
And we can see that the symbol the little arrow symbol here has gone greyed out.
And if you cast your eyes over to the outliner it's also made them unselect Tibble over here to every
click vose off we see they all come back again.
You can also do a bit of moving if you want to move things between layers in here.
So with the Taurus selected we can click on this little dots here on the plane one.
And it all actually move the Taurus to the plane.
Now it's not obvious that it's happened until you actually turn off the first layer and you see all
the Tauruses disappeared.
So is the Taurus still selected.
We can click this next one down.
And there we go.
It's gone orange.
And that simply shows you when you've got an object selected this little orange blob shows you which
layer that active object is on.
So we can see down here the orange blob.
And here in the lay a management tool that's we've got the plane selected and therefore it's the orange
blob in the first layer because that's where the plane lives.
If we right click on Taurus here or a doughnut we get the second orange if we select the lamp in our
scene will that exists as an object on the first there.
That's a good a good way.
When you've got lots of things displayed simply eyeballing which layer it's actually on.
So a couple of ideas for you with lasers you could put all your lighting on a certain layer.
You could put all of certain things so in this instance I think we're going to have a rabbit on one
layer.
We're going to have grass on another layer and a tree on another.
And perhaps if you guys decide to make your scene a little more involved a little more detailed then
you can use multiple layers in order to do that.
Okay guys it's challenge time.
I'd like you to set up three layers.
Now named the layers.
Rabbit grass and tree respectively.
And put some place holders on each layer representing the rabbits the grass and tree.
Just use some primitives for the moment.
Don't go overboard.
These are just place holders so that I know that you understand how the legs are working.
So then try switching between the layers and finally leaving all three on.
So balls are video now and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's get three layers named rabbit grass and tree set up and the couple a place holders set on them
so straight back over into blender.
Well I don't like a doughnut some.
I get rid of that.
OK.
Now the doughnuts has gone.
Let's name our first layer rabbits.
Oh.
I have not spelt rabbit correctly that's a great start.
And then we've got grass and then the final air here will be tree.
And we may need more layers later depending on what we get up to but for the moment those three are
great.
So let's all are rabbits.
So we've got the first layer here.
Well I'm actually going to do a camera and lighting.
I'm going to pop that on lighting.
They will get a pop.
My camera.
I'm going to click on my camera over here and I'm going to move it to the fourth layer.
There are also select the lamp and move that to the fourth layer.
So that's those items moved off of Layer 1 and then we need.
So we've got this ground plane here and we'll call it grass for the moment so we can set that up there.
And we want that on the grass plain.
So with that selected you can click this little circle here Rabbit.
Okay.
So turn everything else off.
Are rabbits to begin with.
Well we just put a cube in the scene to represent the rabbits.
Okay.
And finally free world trees kind of cylindrical.
So we will make a cylinder.
Now how about a cone it can be a Christmas tree.
How about that.
Okay so let's just undo that I want it moved.
In the Z axis by just one.
There again.
And let's place that over here.
Let's go and just test the render see how that looks.
I think the camera is facing in a completely separate direction.
Let's turn on all of the layers so we can see what's going on.
In fact the camera's looking that way so I'll move it over.
So that's render that image see what it looks like we've got our rabbit and tree behind it that looks
great.
And we've got all of our layers enabled.
So let's go back to the 3-d view.
Spin round here we've got all of our legs enabled.
Let's just play turning them off so we can work on the grass.
We can work on the rabbits we can work on the lighting if we wanted to do that and we can work on the
tree.
Brilliant.
So we've got all of those things that are going to turn them all back on and that's brilliant.
How did you guys get on.
Did you manage to set up your scene with all of the various components.
If you've got any extra ideas about how you're going to use layers please share them in the discussions
and I will see you guys in the next lecture.